while selecting the cloud must consider

1.cloud application components
2.preferred resource management tool
3.Legacy It infrastructure

3-cloud computing deployment models
1.cloud-based

*Run all parts of the application in the cloud.
*Migrate existing applications to the cloud.
*Design and build new applications in the cloud.


2.on-premises( Private Cloud)

*Deploy resources by using virtualization and resource management tools.
*Increase resource utilization by using application management and virtualization technologies.

3.hybrid

*Connect cloud-based resources to on-premises infrastructure.
*Integrate cloud-based resources with legacy IT applications.

EC2( AMAZON ELASTIC COMPUTE CLOUD)

*provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud as Amazon EC2 instances.
 
 How EC2 works
 -------------
 Launch
 Connect
 Use

  *The different instance families in EC2 are general purpose, compute optimized, memory optimized, accelerated computing, and storage optimized.  
  
   EC2 Pricing
   -----------
   On-Demand
   Amazon EC2 Savings Plans
   Reserved Instances
   Spot Instances
   Dedicated Hosts
  
  Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling   
  -----------------------
  Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling enables you to automatically add or remove Amazon EC2 instances in response to changing application demand
  
   Dynamic scaling
   Predictive scaling

Load Balancing
---------------
* Elastic Load Balancing is the AWS service that automatically distributes incoming application traffic across multiple resources, such as Amazon EC2 instances. 
* A load balancer acts as a single point of contact for all incoming web traffic to your Auto Scaling group

Messaging and queueing
----------------------
Monolithic application
----------------------
include databases, servers, the user interface, business logic, and so on. This type of architecture can be considered a monolithic application. 
  if single component fails, another components also fails, so application fails
  
  Microservice
  ------------
  In a microservices approach, application components are loosely coupled. In this case, if a single component fails, the other components continue to work because they are communicating with each other. The loose coupling prevents the entire application from failing. 
  
  
  Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS)
  ------------------------------
  
  Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) is a publish/subscribe service. Using Amazon SNS topics, a publisher publishes messages to subscribers. This is similar to the coffee shop; the cashier provides coffee orders to the barista who makes the drinks.
  
  In Amazon SNS, subscribers can be web servers, email addresses, AWS Lambda functions, or several other options. 


Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS)
----------------------------------------

Using Amazon SQS, you can send, store, and receive messages between software components, without losing messages or requiring other services to be available. In Amazon SQS, an application sends messages into a queue. A user or service retrieves a message from the queue, processes it, and then deletes it from the queue.

Additional Compute Services
----------------------------
Serverless

AWS Lambda
-----------
one of the serverless
AWS Lambda is a service that lets you run code without needing to provision or manage servers. 

 The term “serverless” means that your code runs on servers, but you do not need to provision or manage these servers.
 
amazon ECS(Elastic container service)

  Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) is a highly scalable, high-performance container management system that enables you to run and scale containerized applications on AWS. 
   Docker is a software platform that enables you to build, test, and deploy applications quickly.

amazon EKS

  Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) is a fully managed service that you can use to run Kubernetes on AWS. 
  Kubernetes is open-source software that enables you to deploy and manage containerized applications at scale.

AWS Fargate

   AWS Fargate is a serverless compute engine for containers. It works with both Amazon ECS and Amazon EKS.   
   
   
AWS Global Infrastructure
-------------------------
Aws Regions
-----------
 4 factors we need to put in mind
 1.compliance
   Depending on your company and location, you might need to run your data out of specific areas. For example, if your company requires all of its data to reside within the boundaries of the UK, you would choose the London Region. 
 
 2.Proximity 
   Selecting a Region that is close to your customers will help you to get content to them faster.
   
 3.Available services within a Region
   Sometimes, the closest Region might not have all the features that you want to offer to customers. 
 
 4.Pricing 
   choose the region which has approx cost to your budget
   
Amazon cloudfront
------------------

Amazon CloudFront is a content delivery service. It uses a network of edge locations to cache content and deliver content to customers all over the world. When content is cached, it is stored locally as a copy. This content might be video files, photos, webpages, and so on.   

Availability Zones
------------------
   One region has many availability zones
   
   An Availability Zone is a single data center or a group of data centers within a Region. Availability Zones are located tens of miles apart from each other.
   
   Edge Locations
   --------------
   An edge location is a site that Amazon CloudFront uses to store cached copies of your content closer to your customers for faster delivery.
   
AWS Resources
--------------
Everything is in the form of API

 1.aws management console
   The AWS Management Console is a web-based interface for accessing and managing AWS services. You can quickly access recently used services and search for other services by name, keyword, or acronym. The console includes wizards and automated workflows that can simplify the process of completing tasks.

 2.aws commandline interface
   To save time when making API requests, you can use the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI). AWS CLI enables you to control multiple AWS services directly from the command line within one tool. AWS CLI is available for users on Windows, macOS, and Linux. 
   
 3.software development kits
   SDKs make it easier for you to use AWS services through an API designed for your programming language or platform. SDKs enable you to use AWS services with your existing applications or create entirely new applications that will run on AWS
   
AWS Elastic Beanstalk
----------------------
With AWS Elastic Beanstalk, you provide code and configuration settings, and Elastic Beanstalk deploys the resources necessary to perform the following tasks:

Adjust capacity
Load balancing
Automatic scaling
Application health monitoring


AWS CloudFormation
-------------------

With AWS CloudFormation, you can treat your infrastructure as code. This means that you can build an environment by writing lines of code instead of using the AWS Management Console to individually provision resources.   

	
AWS NETWORKING
--------------

Connectivity to Aws
--------------------

Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC)
-----------------------------------------

  A networking service that you can use to establish boundaries around your AWS resources is Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC).
   
  Within a virtual private cloud (VPC), you can organize your resources into subnets 
   
  A subnet is a section of a VPC that can contain resources such as Amazon EC2 instances.
  
 Internet gateway
------------------
To allow public traffic from the internet to access your VPC, you attach an internet gateway to the VPC.


Virtual private gateway
-----------------------
To access private resources in a VPC, you can use a virtual private gateway. 

The virtual private gateway is the component that allows protected internet traffic to enter into the VPC


AWS Direct Connect
-------------------
AWS Direct Connect is a service that enables you to establish a dedicated private connection between your data center and a VPC. 


Subnets and network access control list
---------------------------------------
Subnets

A subnet is a section of a VPC in which you can group resources based on security or operational needs. Subnets can be public or private. 

Public subnets contain resources that need to be accessible by the public, such as an online store’s website.

Private subnets contain resources that should be accessible only through your private network, such as a database that contains customers’ personal information and order histories. 

Network traffic in a VPC
--------------------------
A packet is a unit of data sent over the internet or a network. 

The VPC component that checks packet permissions for subnets is a network access control list (ACL).

Network access control lists (ACLs)
-----------------------------------

A network access control list (ACL) is a virtual firewall that controls inbound and outbound traffic at the subnet level.

By default, your account’s default network ACL allows all inbound and outbound traffic, but you can modify it by adding your own rules. For custom network ACLs, all inbound and outbound traffic is denied until you add rules to specify which traffic to allow.


Stateless packet filtering
--------------------------
Network ACLs perform stateless packet filtering. They remember nothing and check packets that cross the subnet border each way: inbound and outbound.


Network ACLs perform stateless packet filtering. They remember nothing and check packets that cross the subnet border each way: inbound and outbound.

Security groups
================
A security group is a virtual firewall that controls inbound and outbound traffic for an Amazon EC2 instance.

By default, a security group denies all inbound traffic and allows all outbound traffic. 


Stateful packet filtering
--------------------------

Security groups perform stateful packet filtering. They remember previous decisions made for incoming packets


Global Network
---------------
Amazon Route53

DNS-- domain name service 

Domain Name System (DNS)

Suppose that AnyCompany has a website hosted in the AWS Cloud. Customers enter the web address into their browser, and they are able to access the website. This happens because of Domain Name System (DNS) resolution. DNS resolution involves a customer DNS resolver communicating with a company DNS server.
DNS resolution is the process of translating a domain name to an IP address. 


Amazon Route 53
----------------

Amazon Route 53 is a DNS web service. It gives developers and businesses a reliable way to route end users to internet applications hosted in AWS. 

Amazon Route 53 connects user requests to infrastructure running in AWS (such as Amazon EC2 instances and load balancers). It can route users to infrastructure outside of AWS.

STORAGE AND DATABASE
---------------------
Instance stores
----------------

An instance store provides temporary block-level storage for an Amazon EC2 instance. An instance store is disk storage that is physically attached to the host computer for an EC2 instance, and therefore has the same lifespan as the instance. When the instance is terminated, you lose any data in the instance store.


Amazon EBS --amazon elastic block storage
----------

Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) is a service that provides block-level storage volumes that you can use with Amazon EC2 instances. If you stop or terminate an Amazon EC2 instance, all the data on the attached EBS volume remains available.

An EBS snapshot is an incremental backup. This means that the first backup taken of a volume copies all the data. For subsequent backups, only the blocks of data that have changed since the most recent snapshot are saved. 

Amazon simple storage service(S3)
---------------------------------
Object storage
---------------

In object storage, each object consists of data, metadata, and a key.

The data might be an image, video, text document, or any other type of file. Metadata contains information about what the data is, how it is used, the object size, and so on. An object’s key is its unique identifier.


(Amazon S3)
------------

Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is a service that provides object-level storage. Amazon S3 stores data as objects in buckets.
The maximum file size for an object in Amazon S3 is 5 TB.

Amazon S3 storage classes
==========================
 When selecting an Amazon S3 storage class, consider these two factors:

How often you plan to retrieve your data
How available you need your data to be

S3 Standard
------------

Designed for frequently accessed data
Stores data in a minimum of three Availability Zones

S3 Standard-Infrequent Access (S3 Standard-IA)
-----------------------------------
Ideal for infrequently accessed data
Similar to S3 Standard but has a lower storage price and higher retrieval price

S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (S3 One Zone-IA)
-----------------------------
Stores data in a single Availability Zone
Has a lower storage price than S3 Standard-IA


S3 Intelligent-Tiering
-----------------------
Ideal for data with unknown or changing access patterns
Requires a small monthly monitoring and automation fee per object

S3 Glacier
–---------
*Low-cost storage designed for data archiving
*Able to retrieve objects within a few minutes to hours
*S3 Glacier is a low-cost storage class that is ideal for data archiving

S3 Glacier Deep Archive
–-----------------------
Lowest-cost object storage class ideal for archiving
Able to retrieve objects within 12 hours

Comparision of EBS and S3
-------------------------
ebs
---
AWS Cloud Practitioners, welcome to the clash of the storage class! In the block storage corner, weighing in at sizes up to 16 tebibytes each, with a unique ability to survive the termination of their Amazon EC2 instances, they are solid state, they are spinning platters, they are Amazon Elastic Block Storage! 

s3
---

In the regional object storage corner, weighing in at unlimited storage, with individual objects at 5,000 gigabytes in size, they specialize in write once/read many, they are 99 .999 999 999% durable, they are Amazon Simple Storage Service! 


Amazon Elastic File system(EFS)
-------------------------------

Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) is a scalable file system used with AWS Cloud services and on-premises resources. As you add and remove files, Amazon EFS grows and shrinks automatically. It can scale on demand to petabytes without disrupting applications. 

Comparing Amazon EBS and Amazon EFS
----------------------------
An Amazon EBS volume stores data in a single Availability Zone. 

EBS
----

To attach an Amazon EC2 instance to an EBS volume, both the Amazon EC2 instance and the EBS volume must reside within the same Availability Zone.

EFS
---

Amazon EFS is a regional service. It stores data in and across multiple Availability Zones. 

The duplicate storage enables you to access data concurrently from all the Availability Zones in the Region where a file system is located. Additionally, on-premises servers can access Amazon EFS using AWS Direct Connect

Amazon relational database services(RDS)
--------------------------------------------
Relational databases
---------------------
Relational databases use structured query language (SQL) to store and query data. This approach allows data to be stored in an easily understandable, consistent, and scalable way

Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) is a service that enables you to run relational databases in the AWS Cloud.

Amazon RDS database engines

Amazon RDS is available on six database engines, which optimize for memory, performance, or input/output (I/O). Supported database engines include:

Amazon Aurora
  
>>   It is up to five times faster than standard MySQL databases and up to three times faster than standard PostgreSQL databases.
   
PostgreSQL
MySQL
MariaDB
Oracle Database
Microsoft SQL Server

Amazon DynamoDB
================

Serverless DB
Amazon DynamoDB is a key-value database service. It delivers single-digit millisecond performance at any scale.


Nonrelational databases
========================

In a nonrelational database, you create tables. A table is a place where you can store and query data.

Nonrelational databases are sometimes referred to as “NoSQL databases” because they use structures other than rows and columns to organize data. One type of structural approach for nonrelational databases is key-value pairs. 

  
Amazon Redshift
----------------
Amazon Redshift is a data warehousing service that you can use for big data analytics. It offers the ability to collect data from many sources and helps you to understand relationships and trends across your data.
   
AWS data migration service(DMS)
-------------------------------

(AWS DMS) enables you to migrate relational databases, nonrelational databases, and other types of data stores.

With AWS DMS, you move data between a source database and a target database. The source and target databases can be of the same type or different types. During the migration, your source database remains operational, reducing downtime for any applications that rely on the database. 

Additional database services
-----------------------------
Amazon DocumentDB
–------------------
Amazon DocumentDB is a document database service that supports MongoDB workloads. (MongoDB is a document database program.)

Amazon Neptune
–--------------
Amazon Neptune is a graph database service. 

You can use Amazon Neptune to build and run applications that work with highly connected datasets, such as recommendation engines, fraud detection, and knowledge graphs.

Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (Amazon QLDB)
–-------------------------------------
Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (Amazon QLDB) is a ledger database service. 

You can use Amazon QLDB to review a complete history of all the changes that have been made to your application data.

Amazon Managed Blockchain
–-------------------------
Amazon Managed Blockchain is a service that you can use to create and manage blockchain networks with open-source frameworks

Amazon ElastiCache
–------------------
Amazon ElastiCache is a service that adds caching layers on top of your databases to help improve the read times of common requests. 

It supports two types of data stores: Redis and Memcached.

Amazon DynamoDB Accelerator
–-----------------------------
Amazon DynamoDB Accelerator (DAX) is an in-memory cache for DynamoDB. 

It helps improve response times from single-digit milliseconds to microseconds.

SECURITY
--------

shared responsibility model
----------------------------
 AWS is responsible for some parts of your environment and you (the customer) are responsible for other parts. This concept is known as the shared responsibility model.
 
 The shared responsibility model divides into customer responsibilities (commonly referred to as “security in the cloud”) and AWS responsibilities (commonly referred to as “security of the cloud”).


User permissions and access
-----------------------------
 AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)
 --------------------------------
 
 AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) enables you to manage access to AWS services and resources securely.   
 IAM gives you the flexibility to configure access based on your company’s specific operational and security needs. You do this by using a combination of IAM features, which are explored in detail in this lesson:

IAM users, groups, and roles
IAM policies
Multi-factor authentication

AWS account root user
----------------------

When you first create an AWS account, you begin with an identity known as the root user. 

The root user is accessed by signing in with the email address and password that you used to create your AWS account.

IAM users
----------

An IAM user is an identity that you create in AWS. It represents the person or application that interacts with AWS services and resources. It consists of a name and credentials.

By default, when you create a new IAM user in AWS, it has no permissions associated with it. To allow the IAM user to perform specific actions in AWS, such as launching an Amazon EC2 instance or creating an Amazon S3 bucket, you must grant the IAM user the necessary permissions.

IAM policies
-------------

An IAM policy is a document that allows or denies permissions to AWS services and resources.  

IAM policies enable you to customize users’ levels of access to resources. For example, you can allow users to access all of the Amazon S3 buckets within your AWS account, or only a specific bucket.

IAM groups
-----------

An IAM group is a collection of IAM users. When you assign an IAM policy to a group, all users in the group are granted permissions specified by the policy.

IAM User
---------
An IAM role is an identity that you can assume to gain temporary access to permissions.  

AWS Organizations
---------------------

Suppose that your company has multiple AWS accounts. You can use AWS Organizations to consolidate and manage multiple AWS accounts within a central location.

In AWS Organizations, you can centrally control permissions for the accounts in your organization by using service control policies (SCPs). SCPs enable you to place restrictions on the AWS services, resources, and individual API actions that users and roles in each account can access.

AWS Artifact
-------------
AWS Artifact is a service that provides on-demand access to AWS security and compliance reports and select online agreements. AWS Artifact consists of two main sections: AWS Artifact Agreements and AWS Artifact Reports.

Suppose that your company needs to sign an agreement with AWS regarding your use of certain types of information throughout AWS services. You can do this through AWS Artifact Agreements. 

Next, suppose that a member of your company’s development team is building an application and needs more information about their responsibility for complying with certain regulatory standards. You can advise them to access this information in AWS Artifact Reports.

 
 Customer Compliance Center
-------------------------------

The Customer Compliance Center contains resources to help you learn more about AWS compliance. 

Denial-of-service attacks
---------------------------

A denial-of-service (DoS) attack is a deliberate attempt to make a website or application unavailable to users.

AWS Shield
-----------

AWS Shield is a service that protects applications against DDoS attacks. AWS Shield provides two levels of protection: Standard and Advanced.

AWS Shield Standard
–
AWS Shield Standard automatically protects all AWS customers at no cost. It protects your AWS resources from the most common, frequently occurring types of DDoS attacks. 

AWS Shield Advanced is a paid service that provides detailed attack diagnostics and the ability to detect and mitigate sophisticated DDoS attacks. 

AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS)
------------------------------------
AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) enables you to perform encryption operations through the use of cryptographic keys. A cryptographic key is a random string of digits used for locking (encrypting) and unlocking (decrypting) data. You can use AWS KMS to create, manage, and use cryptographic keys. You can also control the use of keys across a wide range of services and in your applications.

AWS WAF
--------
AWS WAF is a web application firewall that lets you monitor network requests that come into your web applications. 

Amazon Inspector
-----------------
Amazon Inspector helps to improve the security and compliance of applications by running automated security assessments. It checks applications for security vulnerabilities and deviations from security best practices, such as open access to Amazon EC2 instances and installations of vulnerable software versions. 

Amazon GuardDuty
-----------------

Amazon GuardDuty is a service that provides intelligent threat detection for your AWS infrastructure and resources. It identifies threats by continuously monitoring the network activity and account behavior within your AWS environment.


Amazon CloudWatch
------------------
Amazon CloudWatch is a web service that enables you to monitor and manage various metrics and configure alarm actions based on data from those metrics.

CloudWatch alarms
-------------------

With CloudWatch, you can create alarms that automatically perform actions if the value of your metric has gone above or below a predefined threshold. 

AWS CloudTrail
--------------

AWS CloudTrail records API calls for your account. The recorded information includes the identity of the API caller, the time of the API call, the source IP address of the API caller, and more. You can think of CloudTrail as a “trail” of breadcrumbs (or a log of actions) that someone has left behind them.

CloudTrail Insights
-------------------

Within CloudTrail, you can also enable CloudTrail Insights. This optional feature allows CloudTrail to automatically detect unusual API activities in your AWS account. 

AWS Trusted Advisor
-------------------

AWS Trusted Advisor is a web service that inspects your AWS environment and provides real-time recommendations in accordance with AWS best practices.

Trusted Advisor compares its findings to AWS best practices in five categories: cost optimization, performance, security, fault tolerance, and service limits. For the checks in each category, Trusted Advisor offers a list of recommended actions and additional resources to learn more about AWS best practices. 

PRICING AND Support
--------------------
AWS Free Tier

The AWS Free Tier enables you to begin using certain services without having to worry about incurring costs for the specified period. 

Three types of offers are available: 

Always Free
  For example, AWS Lambda allows 1 million free requests and up to 3.2 million seconds of compute time per month. Amazon DynamoDB allows 25 GB of free storage per month.
  
12 Months Free
   These offers are free for 12 months following your initial sign-up date to AWS.
Examples include specific amounts of Amazon S3 Standard Storage, thresholds for monthly hours of Amazon EC2 compute time, and amounts of Amazon CloudFront data transfer out.
 
Trials
Short-term free trial offers start from the date you activate a particular service. The length of each trial might vary by number of days or the amount of usage in the service.

aws PRICING CONCEPTS
---------------------
Pay for what you use.
–---------
For each service, you pay for exactly the amount of resources that you actually use, without requiring long-term contracts or complex licensing. 

Pay less when you reserve.
–-------------
Some services offer reservation options that provide a significant discount compared to On-Demand Instance pricing.

Pay less with volume-based discounts when you use more.
–----------------
Some services offer tiered pricing, so the per-unit cost is incrementally lower with increased usage.

AWS Pricing Calculator
------------------------

The AWS Pricing Calculator lets you explore AWS services and create an estimate for the cost of your use cases on AWS. You can organize your AWS estimates by groups that you define. A group can reflect how your company is organized, such as providing estimates by cost center.

Consolidated billing
---------------------

The consolidated billing feature of AWS Organizations enables you to receive a single bill for all AWS accounts in your organization. By consolidating, you can easily track the combined costs of all the linked accounts in your organization. The default maximum number of accounts allowed for an organization is 4, but you can contact AWS Support to increase your quota, if needed.

AWS Budgets
------------

In AWS Budgets, you can create budgets to plan your service usage, service costs, and instance reservations.

The information in AWS Budgets updates three times a day. This helps you to accurately determine how close your usage is to your budgeted amounts or to the AWS Free Tier limits.

AWS Cost Explorer
-----------------

AWS Cost Explorer is a tool that enables you to visualize, understand, and manage your AWS costs and usage over time.

AWS Cost Explorer includes a default report of the costs and usage for your top five cost-accruing AWS services. You can apply custom filters and groups to analyze your data. For example, you can view resource usage at the hourly level.

AWS Support
-------------

AWS offers four different Support plans to help you troubleshoot issues, lower costs, and efficiently use AWS services. 

You can choose from the following Support plans to meet your company’s needs: 

Basic

  Basic Support is free for all AWS customers. It includes access to whitepapers, documentation, and support communities. With Basic Support, you can also contact AWS for billing questions and service limit increases.
Developer
 Customers in the Developer Support plan have access to features such as:

Best practice guidance
Client-side diagnostic tools
Building-block architecture support, which consists of guidance for how to use AWS offerings, features, and services together

Business
Customers with a Business Support plan have access to additional features, including: 

Use-case guidance to identify AWS offerings, features, and services that can best support your specific needs
All AWS Trusted Advisor checks
Limited support for third-party software, such as common operating systems and application stack components

Enterprise
In addition to all the features included in the Basic, Developer, and Business Support plans, customers with an Enterprise Support plan have access to features such as:

Application architecture guidance, which is a consultative relationship to support your company’s specific use cases and applications
Infrastructure event management: A short-term engagement with AWS Support that helps your company gain a better understanding of your use cases. This also provides your company with architectural and scaling guidance.

Technical Account Manager (TAM)
--------------------------------

The Enterprise Support plan includes access to a Technical Account Manager (TAM).

If your company has an Enterprise Support plan, the TAM is your primary point of contact at AWS. They provide guidance, architectural reviews, and ongoing communication with your company as you plan, deploy, and optimize your applications. 

AWS Marketplace
----------------

AWS Marketplace is a digital catalog that includes thousands of software listings from independent software vendors. You can use AWS Marketplace to find, test, and buy software that runs on AWS. 

AWS Marketplace offers products in several categories, such as Infrastructure Products, Business Applications, Data Products, and DevOps.


MIGRATION AND INNOVATION
-------------------------
Six core perspectives of the Cloud Adoption Framework
-------------------------------------------------------
In general, the Business, People, and Governance Perspectives focus on business capabilities, whereas the Platform, Security, and Operations Perspectives focus on technical capabilities.

Business Perspective
–-------------
The Business Perspective ensures that IT aligns with business needs and that IT investments link to key business results.

Use the Business Perspective to create a strong business case for cloud adoption and prioritize cloud adoption initiatives. Ensure that your business strategies and goals align with your IT strategies and goals.

Common roles in the Business Perspective include: 

Business managers
Finance managers
Budget owners
Strategy stakeholders

The People Perspective
----------------------
The People Perspective supports development of an organization-wide change management strategy for successful cloud adoption.

Use the People Perspective to evaluate organizational structures and roles, new skill and process requirements, and identify gaps. This helps prioritize training, staffing, and organizational changes.

Common roles in the People Perspective include: 

Human resources
Staffing
People managers

Governance Perspective
–----------------------
The Governance Perspective focuses on the skills and processes to align IT strategy with business strategy. This ensures that you maximize the business value and minimize risks.

Use the Governance Perspective to understand how to update the staff skills and processes necessary to ensure business governance in the cloud. Manage and measure cloud investments to evaluate business outcomes.

Common roles in the Governance Perspective include: 

Chief Information Officer (CIO)
Program managers
Enterprise architects
Business analysts
Portfolio managers

Platform Perspective
–--------------------
The Platform Perspective includes principles and patterns for implementing new solutions on the cloud, and migrating on-premises workloads to the cloud.

Use a variety of architectural models to understand and communicate the structure of IT systems and their relationships. Describe the architecture of the target state environment in detail.

Common roles in the Platform Perspective include: 

Chief Technology Officer (CTO)
IT managers
Solutions architects

Security Perspective
–--------------------
The Security Perspective ensures that the organization meets security objectives for visibility, auditability, control, and agility. 

Use the AWS CAF to structure the selection and implementation of security controls that meet the organization’s needs.

Common roles in the Security Perspective include: 

Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)
IT security managers
IT security analysts

The Operations Perspective
------------------------------
The Operations Perspective helps you to enable, run, use, operate, and recover IT workloads to the level agreed upon with your business stakeholders.

Define how day-to-day, quarter-to-quarter, and year-to-year business is conducted. Align with and support the operations of the business. The AWS CAF helps these stakeholders define current operating procedures and identify the process changes and training needed to implement successful cloud adoption.

Common roles in the Operations Perspective include: 

IT operations managers
IT support managers

Migration Strategies
---------------------
When migrating applications to the cloud, six of the most common migration strategies that you can implement are:

Rehosting
 
 Rehosting also known as “lift-and-shift” involves moving applications without changes. 
 In the scenario of a large legacy migration, in which the company is looking to implement its migration and scale quickly to meet a business case, the majority of applications are rehosted.  

Replatforming
 Replatforming, also known as “lift, tinker, and shift,” involves making a few cloud optimizations to realize a tangible benefit. Optimization is achieved without changing the core architecture of the application.
 
Refactoring/re-architecting
 Refactoring (also known as re-architecting) involves reimagining how an application is architected and developed by using cloud-native features. Refactoring is driven by a strong business need to add features, scale, or performance that would otherwise be difficult to achieve in the application’s existing environment.
 
Repurchasing
 Repurchasing involves moving from a traditional license to a software-as-a-service model. 
 For example, a business might choose to implement the repurchasing strategy by migrating from a customer relationship management (CRM) system to Salesforce.com.

Retaining
 Retaining consists of keeping applications that are critical for the business in the source environment. This might include applications that require major refactoring before they can be migrated, or, work that can be postponed until a later time.
 
Retiring
 Retiring is the process of removing applications that are no longer needed.
 
AWS Snow Family members
-------------------------
The AWS Snow Family is a collection of physical devices that help to physically transport up to exabytes of data into and out of AWS. 
AWS Snow Family is composed of AWS Snowcone, AWS Snowball, and AWS Snowmobile. 

AWS Snowcone is a small, rugged, and secure edge computing and data transfer device. 
It features 2 CPUs, 4 GB of memory, and 8 TB of usable storage.

2-types(snowball)
Snowball Edge Storage Optimized 
-------------
Snowball Edge Storage Optimized devices are well suited for large-scale data migrations and recurring transfer workflows, in addition to local computing with higher capacity needs. 
Storage: 80 TB of hard disk drive (HDD) capacity for block volumes and Amazon S3 compatible object storage, and 1 TB of SATA solid state drive (SSD) for block volumes. 
Compute: 40 vCPUs, and 80 GiB of memory to support Amazon EC2 sbe1 instances (equivalent to C5).

Snowball Edge Compute Optimized
-------------------------------
Snowball Edge Compute Optimized provides powerful computing resources for use cases such as machine learning, full motion video analysis, analytics, and local computing stacks. 
Storage: 42-TB usable HDD capacity for Amazon S3 compatible object storage or Amazon EBS compatible block volumes and 7.68 TB of usable NVMe SSD capacity for Amazon EBS compatible block volumes. 
Compute: 52 vCPUs, 208 GiB of memory, and an optional NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPU. Devices run Amazon EC2 sbe-c and sbe-g instances, which are equivalent to C5, M5a, G3, and P3 instances.

snowmobile
-----------
AWS Snowmobile is an exabyte-scale data transfer service used to move large amounts of data to AWS. 
You can transfer up to 100 petabytes of data per Snowmobile, a 45-foot long ruggedized shipping container, pulled by a semi trailer truck.

Advantages of cloud computing
-------------------------------
Trade upfront expense for variable expense.
Benefit from massive economies of scale.
Stop guessing capacity.
Increase speed and agility.
Stop spending money running and maintaining data centers.
Go global in minutes.