Kubernetes is a container management technology developed in Google lab
It is an open source system which helps in creating and managing containerization of application
hosted by Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF).
This is also known as the enhanced version of Borg
Kubernetes comes with a capability of automating deployment, scaling of application, and operations of application containers across clusters. It is capable of creating container centric infrastructure.

Features of Kubernetes
------------------------

Continues development, integration and deployment

Containerized infrastructure

Application-centric management

Auto-scalable infrastructure

Environment consistency across development testing and production

Loosely coupled infrastructure, where each component can act as a separate unit

Higher density of resource utilization

Predictable infrastructure which is going to be created

>>>>it can run application on clusters of physical and virtual machine infrastructure. It also has the capability to run applications on cloud. It helps in moving from host-centric infrastructure to container-centric infrastructure.

Kubernetes - Cluster Architecture
----------------------------------
Kubernetes follows client-server architecture.
we have master installed on one machine and the node on separate Linux machines.

Kubernetes - Master Machine Components
----------------------------------------

etcd
----
stores the configuration information can be used by each node in the clusters
 It is a high availability key value store that can be distributed among multiple nodes.
 
 API Server
 -----------
 
 which provides all the operation on cluster 
 
 API server implements an interface, which means different tools and libraries can readily communicate with it.
 Kubeconfig is a package along with the server side tools that can be used for communication
 
 Controller Manager
 -------------------
  responsible for most of the collectors that regulates the state of cluster and performs a task.
  
 Scheduler
 ---------
 key components of Kubernetes master.
 The scheduler is responsible for workload utilization and allocating pod to new node.
 
Kubernetes - Node Components
-----------------------------
Docker
-------
Docker which helps in running the encapsulated application containers in a relatively isolated but lightweight operating environment.

Kubelet Service
----------------
esponsible for relaying information to and from control plane services
interacts with etcd store to read configuration details and wright values.
The kubelet process then assumes responsibility for maintaining the state of work and the node server.

Kubernetes Proxy Service
-------------------------
This is a proxy service which runs on each node and helps in making services available to the external host. 